In order to make the laboratory experiment with digital image correlation more useful as a learning experience, 
it is good to already have some notion of how the images you capture during the experiment will be processed. 
To that end, we have set up a computer workstation in the downstairs meeting room in K2, room 105b, with the 
Vic3D software installed, and captured some images of a reference with known strain fields applied to the same 
numerically generated pattern. If you have not already done so, please sign up for a time slot tomorrow 
(Thursday, April 4) afternoon or Friday (April 5) to come try out the basic steps of a simple DIC calculation 
and explore the influence of calculation settings like the subset size used in the displacement calculation and 
the strain filter size that the Vic3D software used to calculate strain fields from the displacement field. 
I will be there to individually guide you through the calculations and answer any questions you have about them. 

We will provide more information about the laboratory exercise itself sometime in the next few days. 
The measurements will happen some time next week, or maybe early in the week after that. 
The reason some of the arrangements for that are still uncertain, is that you have a special opportunity this year, 
to use demonstration units from a few different commercial vendors of DIC systems for your laboratory exercises. 
These vendors will bring their systems to our labs for the Finnish DIC Day, on Tuesday April 9th. 

If you have the time and would like to join the presentations or equipment demonstrations, 
please take a look at the schedule and sign up at https://www.aalto.fi/en/events/finnish-dic-day-2024. 
This is entirely optional for the course, but might be an interesting opportunity for you given that you were interested 
in the course. It could also provide inspiration for the case study at the end of the course, especially if you 
have not yet decided what you want to do that about. 

